docs(trainer): add JIT checkpointing to trainer recipes (#46826)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/trainer_recipes.md

When resuming, [`Trainer`] restores the optimizer state, scheduler state, and RNG state.

Checkpoint resuming requires optimizer and scheduler state files in the checkpoint directory. If those files are missing (for example, when `save_only_model=True`), the optimizer restarts from scratch.

### JIT checkpointing

> With periodic checkpointing (`save_strategy="steps"` or `"epoch"`), any training progress between the last saved checkpoint and an interruption is lost. On shared clusters with preemptible workloads (e.g., [Kueue](https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/)), jobs can be terminated at any time, and that gap can mean hours of wasted compute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With periodic checkpointing (save_strategy="steps" or "epoch"), you lose any training progress between the last saved checkpoint and an interruption. On shared clusters with preemptible workloads such as [Kueue](https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/), jobs can be terminated at any time, so that gap can mean hours of wasted compute.
```

> JIT (Just-In-Time) checkpointing closes this gap. When the trainer receives a SIGTERM signal, it saves a checkpoint at the exact point training was interrupted, so you resume with zero loss of progress. It works alongside periodic checkpointing: periodic saves guard against crashes and hardware failures, while JIT saves guard against preemption and graceful shutdowns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JIT (Just-In-Time) checkpointing closes this gap. When the trainer receives a SIGTERM signal, it saves a checkpoint at the exact point training was interrupted, so you resume with minimal loss of progress. It works alongside periodic checkpointing. Periodic saves guard against crashes and hardware failures, while JIT saves guard against preemption and graceful shutdowns.
```

Enable it by setting `enable_jit_checkpoint=True` in [`TrainingArguments`].

```py
from transformers import TrainingArguments

training_args = TrainingArguments(
    output_dir="your-model",
    enable_jit_checkpoint=True,
)
```

> When SIGTERM is received, the trainer waits for the current training step to finish, saves a checkpoint, and stops training gracefully. A sentinel file (`checkpoint-is-incomplete.txt`) is written during the save and removed once the checkpoint is fully written, so incomplete checkpoints are easy to detect when resuming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When SIGTERM is received, [`Trainer`] waits for the current training step to finish, saves a checkpoint, and stops training gracefully. A sentinel file (`checkpoint-is-incomplete.txt`) is written when the save begins and removed once the checkpoint is fully written. If a checkpoint directory still contains this file, the save was interrupted before completing. `Trainer` doesn't check for it automatically, so inspect for it yourself before resuming.
```

Resume from the JIT checkpoint the same way as any other checkpoint.

```py
trainer.train(resume_from_checkpoint=True)
```

> [!WARNING]
> You must configure your orchestrator to allow enough time for the checkpoint to complete. The default Kubernetes graceful shutdown period is only 30 seconds, which is typically not enough for larger models.

<hfoptions id="orchestrator-grace-period">
<hfoption id="Kubernetes">

Set `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` in your Pod or Job spec. The exact field location varies by trainer (Kubeflow Training Operator, Ray, etc.).

```yaml
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 300
```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="Slurm">

Use `--signal=TERM@<seconds>` in your sbatch script to send SIGTERM before the job time limit expires.

```bash
#SBATCH --signal=TERM@300
```

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

> Calculate the required grace period as the longest possible training step time plus the checkpoint saving time. For example, if a training step takes up to 2 minutes and saving a checkpoint takes 2 minutes, set at least 240 seconds of grace time.

Reviewer: does it make sense to also include the 3 sec `kill_wait` here in the calculations?

https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/49f6b78f44dc024b2393c5ed51584795d7530809/src/transformers/trainer_jit_checkpoint.py#L14
